# Rubens Configurator + Google Analytics (GDPR)

On the one hand the Roomle Rubens Configurator uses Google Analytics to improve UX and performance based on the anonymized data we collect. And on the other hand it enables you access usage insights during a configuration session,  when your customers configure your products on your website or web shop. We do not collect any private or personalized data. We do not use data collected with Google Analytics for personalized marketing or spam. We follow the best practices to protect the data of the user.

## Options & Process

### **Use Case 1:**

Enable Google Analytics tracking in order to generate usage-based configuration insights

In order to act GDPR compliant we strongly recommend to collect the users consent on your side before using the Roomle Rubens Configurator and its integrated Google Analytics tracking. The information of the consent must be passed to the integration snippet (Roomle), so that Roomle can activate / deactivate the GA tracking.

In a first step the website actively asks for the user´s consent for the usage of the configuration solution. This consent can be requested via the cookie banner.

Currently you have two options:

* ask the user for consent before loading the Roomle Rubens configurator. This is similar how YouTube and Twitter embedding work. The GA tracking is activated in the configurator only after the user has given his consent.
* if you prefer more fine grained control [learn more in our embedding documentation](https://docs.roomle.com/web/embedding/integration.html#google-analytics-and-user-consent).

### **Update your privacy policy online**

Integrate the Roomle 3D configuration service into your privacy policy section under the section "Platform-bound tools & applications".  Your website users have to approve your "user consent" online which is directly linked to your privacy policy. If you let your customers use the Rubens 3D Viewer or 3D Configurator prior to the approval of your user consent is a decision to be made on your side.\
\
We have prepared legally approved text templates. Feel free to use them or slightly adjust them.

#### **English Version**  I.             Tools and Applications

1. Platform-bound Tools and Applications.
   1. Roomle 3D configuration service
      1. We provide a 3D configurator to our users to enable a better product experience, which is a service of Roomle GmbH, Peter-Behrens-Platz 2, 4020 Linz. Roomle only has access to the configuration data generated by users in a configuration session, but has no access to any personal or other user data of the visitors to our website.
      2. Roomle uses Google Analytics, a web analysis service by Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheater Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA. That service uses so-called "cookies". The information generated by cookies about your use of this website is usually transmitted to a Google server and stored there.
      3. At Roomle’s request, Google uses this information to evaluate your use of the Roomle configurator, to compile reports on configuration activities and to provide other services to Roomle related to the use of the configurator. The IP address transmitted by your browser as part of Google Analytics will not be merged with other Google data.
      4. The storage of the cookies required by Google Analytics can be prevented by setting your browser software accordingly; however, this may have the effect of preventing your use of all the features of the Rubens configurator to their full extent. You can prevent the collection of data generated by the cookie and related to your use of the configurator (including your IP address) as well as their transmission and processing by Google by downloading and installing the browser plug-in available under the following link: [http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de](http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de).

#### **German Version**  I.             Verwendete Tools und Applikationen

1. Plattform gebundene Tools und Applikationen.
   1. Roomle 3D Konfigurationsservice
      1. Für unsere Nutzer stellen wir einen 3D Konfigurator zur Verfügung, um ein noch besseres Produkterlebnis zu ermöglichen. Dabei handelt es sich um einen Service der Roomle GmbH, Peter-Behrens-Platz 2, 4020 Linz. Roomle hat ausschließlich Zugriff auf die von Nutzern in einer Session generierten Konfigurationsdaten, hat allerdings keinen Zugriff auf jegliche personenbezogenen oder andere Nutzerdaten der Besucher unserer Website.
      2. Roomle verwendet Google Analytics, einen Webanalysedienst der Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA. Dieser Dienst verwendet sog. "Cookies" (s.o.) Die durch Cookies erzeugten Informationen über Ihre Benutzung dieser Website werden in der Regel an einen Server von Google übertragen und dort gespeichert.
      3. In Roomles Auftrag benutzt Google diese Informationen, um Ihre Nutzung des Roomle Konfigurators auszuwerten, um Reports über die Aktivitäten mit dem Konfigurator zusammenzustellen und um weitere mit der Konfiguratornutzung verbundene Dienstleistungen gegenüber Roomle zu erbringen. Die im Rahmen von Google Analytics von Ihrem Browser übermittelte IP-Adresse wird nicht mit anderen Daten von Google zusammengeführt.
      4. Die Speicherung der von Google Analytics benötigten Cookies kann durch eine entsprechende Einstellung Ihrer Browser-Software verhindert werden; allerdings kann dies dazu führen. dass Sie gegebenenfalls nicht sämtliche Funktionen des Rubens Konfigurators vollumfänglich nutzen können. Die Erfassung der durch das Cookie erzeugten und auf Ihre Nutzung des Konfigurators bezogenen Daten (inkl. Ihrer IP-Adresse) sowie deren Übermittlung und Verarbeitung durch Google können Sie verhindern, indem sie das unter dem folgenden Link verfügbare Browser-Plugin herunterladen und installieren: [http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de](http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de).

### **Step 2: "Data Processing Addendum" (Auftragsdatenverarbeitungs Vertrag)**

In addition we have to sign a "Data Processing Addendum". Please reach out to your sales contact in case you have not signed it yet.

### **Use Case 2 :**

**Turn-off Google Analytics in your Rubens Configurator Embedding Version**\
\
We enable you to switch off  Google Analytics Tracking in your individual integration. You can deactivate it directly under your configurator settings. No further GDPR related action is needed on your side. \
**Attention: Please be aware that when you turn-off Analytics tracking you also dispense on any access to usage-based configuration data insights.**
